R for Data Science
================

## Why I Now Prefer R for Data Science

In the growing landscape of programming languages used for data science
tools, R stands out as my top choice. While I have experience with other
languages such as SAS and Python, I find that R most aligns with my
preferences. A few key reasons underpin my inclination:

1.  Syntax and Structure: R’s syntax is intuitive and well-structured,
    offering a user-friendly experience.
2.  RStudio: This integrated development environment (IDE) not only
    makes R coding more efficient but also enhances the overall user
    experience.
3.  Statistical Capabilities: R’s roots in statistics are evident in its
    comprehensive array of statistical packages and functions, some of
    which are unmatched in other languages.
4.  Versatility: Contrary to some beliefs, R matches, if not surpasses,
    the capabilities of Python and SAS in its data science capabilities

## Highlights from the NCSU *Data Science for Statisticians* Course

This course has been instrumental in deepening my understanding of
machine learning within the R ecosystem. While I had some prior machine
learning experience with Python, navigating the same functionality with
R was enlightening. I was particularly impressed with the `caret`
package, which I now consider to the the `scikit-learn` of the R
language.

Although had prior (self-taught) knowledge of some ML principles, this
course allowed me to delve deeper into specific algorithms like linear
regression, decision trees, bagging, boosting, and more, solidifying my
foundational knowledge.

## Looking Ahead

In upcoming projects (either for work or for school), I intend to
increasingly use R - especially for data science. Additionally, my
interest in spatial statistics aligns well with R’s capabilities in
handling GIS and spatial data analysis techniques. I enjoyed putting
some of the skills I learned in this course to use during the final
project, when I built a [Shiny
app](https://github.com/benton-tripp/slothful-seer/tree/main) that used
data science and GIS to model the distribution of the three-toed sloth
in South America. I intend to continue to improve my work through R’s
capacity to perform complex spatial data science tasks.

As the field of data science continues to evolve, I believe that R will
remain at the forefront of my toolkit, proving indispensable in both
current and future endeavors.
